William Mears
Rise set time calculator/grapher for stars
Rise/set time calculator is a program that allows you to calculate and graph rise/set times for stars. To use the code, first run it out of the command prompt. Then, enter the date for which you would like to calculate. Next, enter either a preset observatory or custom coordinates for your observing location. Then, either look up a star or enter the right ascension and declination of the star. If graphing, you have the options to plot the sun and plot with grid lines, and the option to plot in UTC or local time for the chosen observing area. For calculating rise/set times, the process button automatically saves a text file to the programs directory, so the user must enter a name for the text file before hitting the process button. Before processing, the user must also select if they would like their output in local or UTC time. The program is a graphic user interface (GUI) that used tkinter for all GUI functions, astropy for calculating sources altitude above the horizon, datetime for putting time throughout the day in a list, pytz, dateutil, and timezonefinder for time zone conversions, numpy for storing altitudes, matplotlib for graphing, and pysolar for getting the altitudes of the sun. The first portion of the code is used for initializing buttons, entry windows, check boxes, and labels. The code then defines functions for converting HMS and DMS to degrees, because most of the code's functions are designed for inputting locations in degrees. The code then defines the clear button, which clears previously calculated rise/set times from the screen. Next, the code defines the process function, which is called when the process button is clicked. The process button uses an astropy function to take time, observatory location, and star location as inputs and outputs altitude above the observer's horizon. This is done at ten minute intervals throughout the day to calculate an array of the object's altitude above the horizon. The code then goes through this array to find when it crosses 0, and see if it was a negative to positive change or a positive to negative change. The code then has a graph function, which calculates the same array as process, and graphs the entire array. 
